Let's go ahead and
go implement something with ArrayList.
So I have the arrays up here we're
going to get ArrayList.test.
And I have a couple of things
that I want you to do here.
So I want you to implement an object.
You have this class here, ArrayList.
And I want you to have an integer for
the length, right?
So you're gonna have to keep track of what
the length of your particular object is.
I want you to implement a push and
a pop method, so
this is basically gonna be a stack
at the end of the day, right?
So you can push numbers on the end, right?
You can pop numbers off the end.
And then I want you to implement a get
function and then a delete function.
Which accepts an index,
removes the value from the list and
then it will do a collapse on
that particular part, right?
So if I delete from index
1 of my length 10 array,
you're gonna have to collapse all
those various different methods.
And so if you've never
worked with classes before,
let's just make sure that you get
a clear not testing on classes.
So you're gonna have a constructor,
probably.
This is where every time that
I call new right here, Right,
where I say new ArrayList right here,
the constructor method gets run.
So here you're going to
instantiate all your variables.
You're gonna have a push method,
which is going to accept a value.
And this is going to add an item
to the end of the array.
A pop method which doesn't have anything.
This is going to remove
the last item in the array.
Okay, and returns it.
You're gonna have a get method,
Which is going to take an index, And
returns that item from the array,
And you're gonna have a delete method.
Which takes an index removes
item from the array and
collapses, The array.
When I say collapse, right?
You need to shift everything over.
So you can call this collapse.
You can call it shift.
You can do whatever you want there, okay?
You are not allowed to use
arrays at all for this.
So everything needs to be done
in terms of just saying I mean,
let me just look at how I did it here.
Yeah, so
I have something here that I just said
this .data equals empty object, right?
And then I use the data object to store
all these various different values in.
In fact, I'll just do this for you.
This is the constructor that I have.
So go ahead and just copy that.
Cool, any questions
about the exercise here?
>> So if it's not found the index for
the good function what it should return?
Avoid zero is good, undefined.
I don't think I test you on it.
So I don't think it matters.
But in that particular case, I would.
You can either throw an array out of
bounds or you could return undefined
So, push for
an ArrayList is pretty straightforward.
This.data, this.length,
Equals value, this .length plus plus.
This is the advantage of ArrayList.
This is a very,
very straightforward operation.
Pop pretty similar so cons response
whatever you wanna call this,
equals this .data, this .length-1.
You probably wanna have some sort of logic
to make sure that you're not popping
off and array link 0.
In this particular case,
I'm not really worried about corner cases.
I just wanted to kind
of get the gist here.
I'm gonna say delete this .data,
this .length -1.
This .length, minus minus return response.
Okay, that'll remove something
off the end of there.
The get it's the most beautiful
part of this is return.
This.data index.
Right, the whole reason for
ArrayList is that this is very fast and
very simple, right?
As you can imagine, there's basically no
bugs that that could happen here, right?
I guess you'd have to worry about array or
index out of bounds, but
that would be just about it.
Okay, and then delete.
This is where things get a little hairy.
We're gonna say const
response = this.data[index].
And then we'll return this at the end.
You could also could just return true or
something like that.
That's totally up to you.
But here we're gonna have to
do something to delete this.
So I'm gonna write a method
called collapsed two.
So I'm gonna say this,
this collapsed to index,
if you've never seen
the underscore leading,
this is kind of how you symbolize
in JavaScript a private method.
Since JavaScript until very recently
didn't have private methods.
Technically, you can put up a pound
here, And then you could say collapse to
Yeah, so this actually is not enabled
right now in the in code sandbox and
we're not gonna to go enable it.
But that's how you would actually do
a real private method in JavaScript.
Let's just replace that
with an underscore.
Honestly, I like this better anyway,
it allows me to mess with the function
which is kind of fun, right?
It's fun to mess with the react
internals and stuff like that.
But apparently they don't like it.
[LAUGH] All right, so
we're gonna have this method called
collapse to what it takes in an index.
And we're gonna say for, let i=0.
Sorry, let i=index rather i is
less than the length i ++.
Okay, and then we're gonna say
this .data i = this .data i+1,
Then we're gonna to eventually
say delete this .data,
this .length -1 cuz we're eventually
gonna move that to kinda our we're
removing the last one from the array and
then we're gonna say this.length--.
So this is starting i at the index and
then from there until the end,
we're going to shift everything
over to the left one.
That's what this part does, this for loop,
we're going to delete the one at the end,
right?
And then we're going to
detriment the length.
Okay, and that should be, Enough, I think
for us to pass the unit tests here.
So if we go down to arrays.
And I think I need to remove the skip,
I do.
Let's see all messed up,
this.data is not a function.
Yep, sorry, that should be square
brackets, not, Parentheses.
Let's try that again.
And there we go, passing the tests.
I hope you gained a healthy
appreciation of what arrays do for you.
[LAUGH] If nothing else,
that's one good takeaway from this.
The question is, could we technically
we use the delete method for pop?
Yeah, I think that would
absolutely totally work.
It's probably even as you just say this.
Well, I guess you'd have to,
yeah, return this start
delete this .index -1.
>> That's going to be
this dot length minus.
Because of the length to be
the index rate, this .length .index
>> Yeah sorry, not, yeah, length.
And normally hold it does pass.
Yep, so that's probably even better to
just reuse the logic that you have.
>> Shouldn't it also have
a big function as well, or
it's four different data structures?
>> She does have a what as well?
>> A peak.
>> Yeah, I mean,
if we were implementing a truth stack,
you would have a peak as well, which would
be basically this .length- 1, right?
But we're not implementing a true stack.
Did I say peak up here?
Yeah, so, yeah, to be a real stack,
you would have peak as well.
>> Good, thanks.
>> Yep.
Cool other questions?
So takeaway here get really
great with the ArrayList.
Delete kind of annoying.
So if you have something that you're going
to be reading from and unnecessarily
adding and removing a lot of things
from ArrayList, typically your best bet.
Now, if we have something that's
going to be Written to and
deleted from a whole lot but
not necessarily read from as much.
There's another thing we can
use called LinkeLists and
that's what we're going to do next.